In this video, we're going to see how to show that a transformation between vector spaces is a linear transformation.
So here I have transformation between the space of polynomial to the space of polynomials,
where it takes a polynomial, it spits back X squared times polynomial plus three times polynomial evaluated at zero.
To show this is linear, we need to check two things. We need a check that respects addition.
We need a check that respects scalar multiplication. So let's do additions first.
So we need to take two polynomials. We want to check if we add them and then apply.
S if that's the same thing as applying s to each of them.
And then adding them. So we need to compute both of these things and see that they are the same.
So let's start with S of f plus g. So by definition, as says, we're going to take this thing f plus g
We're going to multiply it by X squared.
And then we're going to add three times that function evaluated at zero -- f plus g, evaluated at zero is just f of zero.
Plus g of  zero. So we've got X squared  f of X plus X squared g of X.
Plus three zero plus three here.
Now to compute S(f)+S(g). We'll do S(f) which is just X squared F of X plus three F of zero.
And then as of G is gonna be X squared G of X plus three G and zero.
And these are written in a different order, but it's clear that they're the same thing. So we conclude that S respects addition.
Now we need to check that S respects scalar multiplication. So we're gonna take a scalar C and look at S of C f.
So that's multiplying by C and then applying S or applying S first.
And then multiplying by C. So we need to compute both of these.
So starting with the first one S of C fof X will take X squared and multiply that by our function C, F of X.
And then add three times so many times the function evaluated at zero.
So we've got one C X squared of X plus three C from zero.
And now for the second part, we're just going to compute as of F and multiply it by C.
So that's X squared f of X. Plus three f of zero.
So we have c X squared f of X plus three, C f of zero.
And sure enough, those are the same thing. So our map as respects addition respects scalar multiplication.
Therefore, it is a linear transformation.